---
layout: post
title:  "So, this is it!"
date:   2018-07-31 14:29:00 +0800
categories: gibberish
---
Raised and born here in Taiwan, I have witnessed political dramas, farces to be specific. The power of the authorities should be taken good care of, while in Taiwan, the politicians always make selfish decisions that clearly jeopardize people's rights and welfare. Education should be one of the most important parts of a country. However, if I were a father, I would never, ever, let my children receive education here because of the following five reasons. 

### 1. Most Teachers do not have time for TEACHING

They are basically overwhelmed with administrivia, meetings and evaluation of some meaningless stuff. For instance, they are asked to come up with teaching guidelines or schedules that would never be followed. Usually these documents are prepared by the publishers, so all they need is to copy paste though. 
Moreover, teachers are required to be office clerks as they answer calls, sign documents and hold activities, even though these activities somtimes have nothing to do with their expertise or education itself. Some of them have to maintain websites or the network infrastructure (bascially an MIS, or devops), while others need to do accounting, be a plumber or an electrician. (Obviously Taiwanese teachers are versatile superheroes!) What if the jobs given are out of their capabilities or scope of their knowledge? Budgets solve everything. So WHY NOT we hire employees and specialists to handle the administrative and technical matters in the first place?

### 2. Students do not have their OWN time

Students come to school before 8:00, mostly around 7:30, in the morning. And they literally got 8 classes every day, so they will not be having their own time until 17:00. What's worse, some of them, usually private high school students, are required to study after dinner for two to three hours. Even for those who do not have self-study sessions, they head for afterschool lessons, or in other words, cram schools.

Summer vacations and winter vacations are merely nouns to high school students in Taiwan. Most schools provide 'compulsory' lessons, so students won't be able to enjoy or make good use of their holiday. It's somewhat ridiculous to me when I noticed lessons during vacations are meant to be optional (and according to the regulations, teachers are not allowed to use the materials for the upcoming semester), but on the other hand, schools and parents regard them as regular classes as they want students to learn for the next semester in advance. From my point of view, vacations and free time are all about projects, hobbies and time with your beloved ones. It's pathetic to see our children spend time sitting in the classroom during vacations. 

### 3. Some Teachers are 'OUTDATED' OR NOT QUALIFIED
What I am referring to here is not the way a teacher teaches, but the capability and passion an educator must possess. I have seen teachers who have been teaching English for more than 25 years in high school but couldn't even translate a simple passage from Children's literature. There are actually two reasons for such situation, which is not that rare than people might think of. First, the teachers who are not capable of teaching their own subject will not be laid off as they are basically 'tenure'. It's totally okay for them to forget everything they have learnt back in college over time. All they need to do is to ask students to recite, to give out homework, and to multitask (learn to make tea and chitchat at the same time) at the office. Hmm, not yet, I've seen worse, like sharing stories, watching movies (unrelated to the subjects of course), talking about their own lives or horoscopes, all these except teaching. 

### 4. Teaching Methods are truly OUTDATED
Taiwanese students started learning English at the age of nine or ten in public schools, while some parents send their kids to private kindergartens, especially bilingual but costly ones. However, based on my own experiences, it's common that high school students who have been 'theoretically' learning English for ten years could not express their own opinions in English and are afraid to talk to foreigners accordingly. Some English teachers in public schools are not able to speak English fluently themselves, not to mention to teach the next generation the way to communicate with English speakers. This problem boils down to the problematic teaching methods from generation to generation that constantly undermine the ability of reasoning, critical thinking, creativity of learners, which is fairly important in learning languages. For example, teachers let the pupils choked with drills, excercises and dialogues that just don't sound natural in any sense. The great amount of homework and monthly examination, weekly quizzes certainly have prominent effects on academic performance for subjects like math or science, hands-on projects and experiments are limited and rare though as schools in Taiwan put more focus on grades, or specifically grades for college entrance examination. Therefore, it is obvious for most high school students in Taiwan, their ultimate goal is to make themself to the higher education institutes. Nonetheless, college education in Taiwan is much worse than that of high schools, which brings me to my last point.

### 5. Higher Education in Taiwan is a MESS
Here, you can easily obtain your master degree but learned nothing at all. Why is that? We just can't get enough universities in Taiwan. So private universities in shortage of students actually just give out degrees for tuitions as young people on the internet usually refer such schools as "xuedian", which means an 'educational' store. All you need to do is to pay for the degree, while for students who truly strive for their academic remarks, it becomes tougher for them to actually receive high quality education since the resources could not be divided equally. There are more to be blamed for the subpar quality of our higher education, but that would be another article. Actually the above listed points could respectively be independent essays as well.

There's not much I can do.